
## High Level compiler workflow


The high level architecture is illustrated below:

---------------------------------------------------------------
Source Language
  |
  | (Reuse OCaml Parser)
  v
Surface Syntax Tree
  |
  | (built in Syntax tree transformation)
  v
Surface Syntax Tree
  |
  | (Reuse OCaml Type checker)
  v
Typedtree
  |
  | (Reuse OCaml pattern match compiler and erase types)
  | (Patches to pass more information down to Lambda )
  |
OCaml Lambda IR
  |
  |
  v
Buckle Lambda IR ------------------+
  |   ^                            |
  |   |                     6 Lambda Passes (lam_* files)
  |   |             Optimization/inlining/dead code elimination
  |   \                            |
  |    \ --------------------------+
  |
  |  Self tail call elimination
  |  Constant folding + propagation
  V
JS IR (J.ml)  ---------------------+
  |   ^                            |
  |   |                     6 JS Passes (js_* files)
  |   |            Optimization/inlining/dead code elimination
  |   \                            |
  |    \  -------------------------+
  |
  |  Smart printer includes scope analysis
  |
  V
Javascript Code
---------------------------------------------------------------


### Design Principles


The current design of BuckleScript follows several high level
principles. While those principles might change in the future, they are
enforced today and can explain certain technical limitations
BuckleScript has.

*Lambda Representation*

As pictured in the diagram above, BuckleScript is primarily based on the
Lambda representation of the OCaml compiler. While this representation
is quite rich, some information is lost from the upstream
representation. The patch to the OCaml compiler tries to enrich this
representation in a non-intrusive way (see next section).

*Minimal Patch to the OCaml compiler*

BuckleScript requires patches to the OCaml compiler. One of the main
reasons is to enrich the Lambda representation so that the generated
code is as nice as possible. A design goal is to keep those patches
minimal and useful for the OCaml compiler in general so that they can
later be integrated.

[NOTE]
=======
A common question is to wonder why BuckleScript transpiles an OCaml
record value to a JavaScript array while a more intuitive representation
would be a JavaScript object. This technical decision is a direct
consequence of the above 2 design principles: the Lambda layer assumes
in a lot of places that a record value is an array and such modification
would be too large of a change to OCaml compiler.
=======

### Soundness

BuckleScript preserves the soundness of the OCaml language. Assuming the
FFI is correctly implemented, the type safety is preserved.

### Minimal new symbol creation

In order to make the JavaScript generated code as close as possible to
the original OCaml core we thrive to introduce as few new symbols as
possible.
